Add documentation - Main Concepts - API (#1855)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/api/api-protocols/2-websocket/index.md

---
code: false
type: page
title: WebSocket
description: WebSocket protocol usage and configuration  
order: 200
---

# WebSocket

The WebSocket protocol is a fairly widespread web standard. It allows to **establish a bi-directional communication channel** between a client and a server.

Due to the persistent nature of its connection, the WebSocket protocol **consumes more energy than HTTP**.

However, it is much **more efficient in sending requests** than HTTP because it does not need to establish a new connection each time.

::: info

> The use of the **WebSocket protocol is recommanded** whenever it's possible.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The use of the **WebSocket protocol is recommended** whenever possible.  
```

> This protocol should be used by default for web applications, machine-to-machine connections, users scripts and CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This protocol should be used by default for web applications, machine-to-machine connections, users scripts and CLIs.
```
